---
author:
  name: Cenk Kılıç
  url: https://cenk.kilic.dev
  email: cenk@kilic.dev
title: v6
order: 10
---

<Badge><FontIcon icon="mdi:tag-text-outline"/>v6.0.0</Badge> has many new features, speed improvements and dependency updates.

<!-- more -->

## Foreword

**I am aware that breaking changes are inconvenient. Breaking changes that require you to refactor your code in this repository is rare and far between.**

But this is a big update where a core component like [`rxjs`](https://npmjs.com/rxjs) has been replaced with an event-emitter-based approach, which is required to refactor anything that is renderer related.

So in this update, custom renderers might take the biggest hit since rendering has been completely refactored.

While doing so I have decided to address one of the biggest problems with the repository. While using an updating renderer like _DefaultRenderer_, you might accidentally or unwillingly log into the console, where this completely breaks the underlying [`log-update`](https://npmjs.com/log-update) library. Now there is a _ProcessOutput_ abstraction is in place to avoid this as much as we can.

The naming scheme of some options was inconsistent and was bugging me for a long-time. Some of the fields are just kept to be somewhat compatible with the original [Listr](https://github.com/SamVerschueren/listr) library. Since this is no longer a concern of mine and this library is extended beyond it is compatibility with the original, I have taken the initiative to update some options with a more consistent naming scheme.

## Migration

::: warning

If you do encounter any more of the breaking changes, please feel free to contribute by editing this page.

:::

- `node.js` version 16 is required as a minimum since support for version 14 has been terminated.
- The fallback renderer default has been changed from _VerboseRenderer_ to _SimpleRenderer_ since it is mostly non-TTY compatible if there are no prompts.
- [`rxjs`](https://npmjs.com/rxjs) has been dropped in favor of an event-emitter-based approach with [`eventemitter3`](https://npmjs.com/eventemitter3). This will possibly break every custom renderer since custom-renderers might rely on `subscribe` on _Task_. The refactoring is nothing very marginal where you can compare the current and old _VerboseRenderer_ for guidance.
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) and [Manager](/api/classes/Manager.html) `err` fields have been renamed to `errors` for consistency.
- _DefaultRenderer_ default output format, which handles fitting the rendered data inside the terminal columns, has been changed from `truncate` to `wrap`, since it is the more logical choice to display all the output data.
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) options `nonTTYRenderer` and `nonTTYRendererOptions` have been renamed to `fallbackRenderer`, `fallbackRendererOptions`
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) options `fallbackCondition` and `silentCondition` have been renamed to `fallbackRendererCondition`, `silentRendererCondition` respectively for consistency.
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) option `collectErrors` default behavior has been changed from `'minimal'` to `false` since this is the most underused functionality and decided that it should be opt-in for saving some memory.
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) property `path`` which is mostly used for collecting the errors to find out the task hierarchy is now an array of strings instead of a joined string.
- The [ListrLogger](/api/classes/ListrLogger.html) implementation has been completely reworked and renamed from `Logger` to `ListrLogger`, anything that relies on it has to be reworked.
- Most of the internal API of the library is now exported, so you can directly use functionality like `color` through `colorrette` etc. without bringing your own library.
- _DefaultRenderer_, _VerboseRenderer_ and _SimpleRenderer_ now use [pluggable components](/renderer/logger.html#presets) for timestamps and task time parsing.
- _VerboseRenderer_ no longer has the field `logEmptyTitle` and skips tasks without titles instead of logging them as 'Task without title.'.
- _TestRenderer_ is encouraged to be used for testing purposes instead of _VerboseRenderer_.
- [ListrTaskState](/api/enums/ListrTaskState.html) `PENDING` has been renamed to `STARTED` and [ListrEventType](/api/enums/ListrTaskEventType.html) `DATA` has been renamed to `OUTPUT` for consistency.
- [ListrTaskRetry](/api/interfaces/ListrTaskRetry.html) which is the output of the `task.isRetrying()` now holds the error value in `error` instead of prior `withError`.
- The [Listr](/api/classes/Listr.html) now has additional options to `forceColor` and `forceTTY` since this was a complaint.
- To use up-to-date dependencies, everything development related in the repository has been converted to `esm` and _DefaultRenderer_ now imports anything `esm` through dynamical imports.
- Prompts in the tasks now have their channel, which might break your custom renderer implementation.
