---
author:
  name: Cenk Kılıç
  url: https://cenk.kilic.dev
  email: cenk@kilic.dev
title: v7
order: 20
---

<Badge><FontIcon icon="mdi:tag-text-outline"/>v7.0.0</Badge>

<!-- more -->

## Migration

::: warning

If you encounter any more of the breaking changes, please feel free to contribute by editing this page.

:::

- The repository has been converted to a monorepo and some parts of it has been broken down in to smaller packages.
- Since this is still a hybrid module transpiled for `cjs`/`esm` imports, with the new changes for Typescript `v5.0.0`+ should be fixed.
- _Listr_ options `disableColor` and `forceColor` have been removed since they were not working as intended. Users are encouraged to use underlying environment variables for [colorrette](https://www.npmjs.com/package/colorette), which are `FORCE_COLOR` and `NO_COLOR`.
- Environment variable `LISTR_DISABLE_COLOR` has been removed in favor of using the underlying library's `NO_COLOR` option instead to have consistency with other libraries.
- _Task_ `options` property, which is used for per-renderer task options has been deprecated in favor of `rendererOptions` and `fallbackRendererOptions` to define the per-renderer task options. This change has been done to properly inject circular types, as well as, pass task options to fallback renderer.
- _Manager_ is now its own seperate package that can be installed on demand through `@listr2/manager`.
- `task.prompt` has been refactored to support multiple adapters, this will break the existing behavior but will bring the ability to use different prompt libraries. Now `inquirer` is also supported addition to initially supported `enquirer`. Prompts adapters are in their respective packages of `@listr2/prompt-adapter-enquirer`, `@listr2/prompt-adapter-inquirer`.

  Old form:

  ```typescript
  import { Listr } from 'listr2'

  await new Listr([
    {
      task: async (ctx, task): Promise<void> => {
        ctx.input = await task.prompt<boolean>({ type: 'Toggle', message: 'Do you love me?' })
      }
    }
  ]).run()
  ```

  Can be migrated with ease:

  ```typescript
  import { Listr } from 'listr2'
  import { ListrEnquirerPromptAdapter } from '@listr2/prompt-adapter-enquirer'

  await new Listr([
    {
      task: async (ctx, task): Promise<boolean> => {
        ctx.input = await task.prompt(ListrEnquirerPromptAdapter).run<boolean>({ type: 'Toggle', message: 'Do you love me?' })
      }
    }
  ]).run()
  ```

  If you are using it in multiple places like canceling a prompt or asking multiple questions in a prompt, you can assign the adapter to a variable instead.

  ```typescript
  import { Listr } from 'listr2'
  import { ListrEnquirerPromptAdapter } from '@listr2/prompt-adapter-enquirer'

  await new Listr([
    {
      task: async (ctx, task): Promise<boolean> => {
        // create the adapter first
        const prompt = task.prompt(ListrEnquirerPromptAdapter)

        ctx.input = await prompt.run<boolean>({ type: 'Toggle', message: 'Do you love me?' })
        ctx.input = await prompt.run<boolean>({ type: 'Toggle', message: 'And another one?' })
      }
    }
  ]).run()
  ```

- Any `enquirer` related exported types have been prefixed with `Enquirer`, e.g. `PromptTypes` became `EnquirerPromptTypes`.
- _Listr_ option `injectWrapper` has been removed. This was only being used by the prompt system. Now you can inject an `enquirer` instance through the adapter directly.
- There is a new `ListrTaskState` which is `PROMPT_FAILED`, that will be emitted whenever a prompt has failed.
